people asked me how do you joint a
chicken well I think the best way to
joint a chicken is in fact to ask the
butcher or the poultra to do it for you
because they cost enough anyway why
shouldn't we make somebody else do the
work but if you're forced to joined a
chicken then I can show you a very easy
way which was taught to be me by my
butcher but the first thing he
recommends and the first thing I
recommend is that you've got to have a
really sharp knife you're wasting your
time otherwise quite frankly now if
you're good at sharpening knives a plain
one like that one would do if you're not
good at sharpening knives then I suggest
you invest in a really sharp serrated
knife a good-quality serrated knife
because that'll make it easier for you
now the first thing you do is you find
the Parsons nose of the chicken which is
there and you make one cut through that
so that you've got one cut to start off
with like that then you put the chicken
up into a vertical position and you
slide your knife into where you made
that cut and you go down in a line
through the back until you get to the
bottom then you open the chicken out
rather like you will open the pages of a
book right out like that flat skin side
down and then you take the knife again
and you start this end and you just put
the knife straight the way through the
breastbone there we are that was quite a
tough breastbone that one but it does
come apart quite easily as you can see
then you turn your half chicken over and
you stretch it stretch it out with your
hand like that and what will happen when
you stretch it out is I'll tip it up so
that you can see you get a line a
distinct line there and that's where you
make your next cut down that line so
we'll go down through that and that just
comes out in one go now that's if you
want to join two chicken into four
pieces if you want to join a larger
chicken and you need to joint it into
six pieces that's easy too all you do is
you turn
over the leg portion over like that
bearing in mind it would be much bigger
on a larger chicken and you'll find a
piece of fat here and if you move that
fat to one side you'll find there's a
distinct white line there and that's
where you put your knife next through
that white line so just go straight
through and it comes away quite easily
and that's what you do if you want six
joints of chicken